# psd-gamifiedapp

WSU Computer Science Capstone Project
=====================================

PSD Lincolin Middle School Gamified App
---------------------------------------

In 2021, the games industry reported estimated revenues of about 198.40 billion dollars, solidly positioning themselves as one of the world’s most immensely popular and valuable forms of entertainment. This growth is only projected to continue rising as well, with market research firms anticipating revenues as high as 339.95 billion by 2027 (Gaming market size, share: 2022 - 27: Industry growth 2021). The power of games to capture the minds and attentions of players across the world cannot be discounted, and given this power, there is also incredible potential for games to capture the attention of players and direct it towards learning and personal advancement as well as towards entertainment.
There is a powerful overlap between games and education, an overlap that innovators have only recently begun to truly explore. The feedback loops and reward models designed and honed to keep people engaged in modes of entertainment can be useful for intriguing students in classwork with a reputation for being uninteresting. Our team aims to explore the potential of games as a tool for education by producing a fully featured game designed to teach basic programming skills to students at a middle school or early high school level with no prior programming experience. While games of a similar nature exist, they often fall into one of two traps which our team sees as pitfalls. Some, while employing the surface level appearance of a game, fail to truly embody the game design principles that make games powerful for learning; Others use a proprietary scripting language that has lessened impact in teaching actionable programming skills. In the construction of this project (working title: “Icarus Protocol”) we aim to solve this problem by producing a game that is a genuinely fun and interesting experience, while also serving as an effective tool for teaching real Python programming.
